Categorical data is not numercal data, but most of the machine learning algos need numerical data.

Exacpet navie bayes and some tree based alogos.

So how do we handle categorocal data

1. If its an output variable like malignent/not maligenent. We can us ebinary encoding with 0 and 1

2. IF its ordinal variable, means order is importtant like L>M>S. we can choose interger encoding with assiging integers
	like L=10, M=5 and S=1

3. If its nominal varibale, we do one hot encoding, where for each category in the varibale we have a binary encoded column

	one hot encoding adds new attributes according to the number of classes present in the categorical attribute 
	i.e if there are n number of categories in categorical attribute, n new attributes will be created.

	Dummy variable trap - lets say we have 3 categorires in a categorical variable. travelclass_1 travelclass_2 and travelclass_3
	Wehne we one hot encode , 3 new features will be added with binary values represented for each row.
	But, For instance, in the above example, if we know that a passenger’s flight ticket is not First Class and not Economy Class, then it must be Business Class. So we only need to use two of these three dummy-coded variables as a predictor. 
	More generally, the number of dummy-coded variables needed is one less than the number of possible values, which is K-1.
	 Hence, one dummy variable is highly correlated with other dummy variables, and needs to be avoided.

	So we can remove one of the categories in the enociding, this is called dummy encoding variable.

	However, in the world of machine learning, One-Hot encoding is more recommended because dummy variable trap is not really a problem when applying regularization


4. One hot encoding in Pandas
	https://towardsdatascience.com/what-is-one-hot-encoding-and-how-to-use-pandas-get-dummies-function-922eb9bd4970

	pd.get_dummies(df.Sex)

	 	female	male
	0	0	1
	1	1	0



	ABove does one hot encoding , to do dummy encoding use

	pd.get_dummies(df.Sex, drop_first=True)

		male
	0	1
	1	0
		


	